# Act 3 - Alm - Forest Crossroads Battle

With my Clive being so strong and fast, securing a 1-turn clear on this map isn't too difficult on its own. A lucky critical hit from Tobin's Excalibur and a single hit from Clive's Ridersbane are enough to take down Berkut. But with the reinforcements at the same time? I don't think I can find a way of doing it:

- Berkut is surrounded by other enemy units. When the map doesn't feature reinforcements, Tobin can be deployed in the northern deployment slots and Swapped into range of Berkut, where an Excalibur critical hit can be rigged. Clive can then easily follow up with Ridersbane and take out Berkut. This is no longer possible.
- The Arcanist is a problem because none of my units can take him out without a critical hit. Clive is currently strong enough to ORKO the Arcanist, but he has to take Mire in retaliation and ends up taking too much damage to face all the remaining enemies. I can use Python in combination with Clive to take out the Arcanist, but that means that I'm still not dealing damage to Berkut this way. Plus I need to Rescue Python out lest he face all the enemy Cavaliers on Enemy Phase.
- The Archers and the lone Cavalier standing in Forest squares at the northwest corner of the map require magic to be dealt with effectively. To ORKO, my only options are Tobin with Excalibur (against all three) and Silque with Nosferatu (against the Archers). I can take out one of the Archers and the Cavalier during Turn 1 Player Phase, but it's unlikely the Archer will move to attack Silque at a range where she can retaliate.
- Clive doesn't double the Berkut, Fernand, Paladins on this map. He needs +1 Speed to do so. He's at 99 experience, so I could rig the level-up to grant him +1 Speed, but that still will not be enough to double Berkut with the Ridersbane.

That being said, the 2-turn clear is worth it as it feeds a lot of experience into Clive, whom I want to class-change to Gold Knight ASAP. The extra Silver and experience for other characters is also welcome. This battle also won me a Blessed Ring, so now both of my Clerics can self-sustain and should be able to Warp/Rescue at a moment's notice.

After the battle, I can visit the Forest Village. This means I can recruit Luthier and begin Goylenapped, but more importantly use the Smithy to start forging some good items for myself. I think I have a working plan to deal with Desaix and map reinforcements, but these are the forges I will need:

- Steel Sword +3 (for Alm, from the Rusted Steel Sword)
- Steel Lance +3 (for Forsyth)
- Ridersbane +1 (for Clive)
- Killer Bow (for Python, from the Steel Bow +1 to Silver Bow +1)

This requires a total of 440 Silver, but I have more than enough with my current funds plus Silver from selling all my alcohol.

**Turn Count:** 2

[Back](../README.md)
