# Act 3 - Alm - Forest Northside Battle

Try as I might, I couldn't get Tatarrah to spawn map reinforcements for this battle, so I'm instead going for the reliable 2-turn clear that relies on Python getting a lot of target practice with the forged Killer Bow. That being said, there are a couple of other objectives I would like to accomplish within the 2-turn window:

- Use Recover once with Silque. This will allow her to level up and continue to accrue bonus experience. She obviously cannot do this on Turn 1, but that's fine. She wants to Warp Python across the River on Turn 1 anyway.
- Give the boss KO to Mathilda. This is not easy to setup without failing the previous objective as I can't afford to Warp Mathilda to the boss on Turn 2. I could instead try going for Rescue, but Python will probably need a refresher from Physic on Turn 2. Assuming I position Mathilda at the left-most starting position, she's 18 squares away from the position where I plan to draw out Gazelle on Turn 1. With two characters pitching in with Swap on Turn 1, she can make it.
- That being said, this places her in the precarious position of being potentially targeted by the group guarding the bridge. To prevent this, she'll equip the Dracoshield to begin with and Clive will ferry the Ridersbane +3 at the start of Turn 2.
- There's still an issue with the Sniper guarding the bridge in that he threatens a lot of my starting area and he still pressures Python, even if I place him on the Forest across the bridge. As such, I'm pulling this Sniper down by offering Luthier as bait. I think I'm giving this KO to Gray as I'd like to slowly but surely get him to LV9 for Sagittae and 3-range chip damage.
- Baiting the Sniper with Luthier is not a trivial matter because Mathilda will block the bridge and Luthier's movement isn't enough to reach the extent of the Sniper's attack range if he moves to a River square. As such, I'm going to leverage the fact that I have Shove on a couple of units to give both Mathilda AND Luthier 2 extra squares of forward movement each, without resorting to Rescue on Turn 1.
- Finally, there's the question of the northwest Witch. When she does decide to Teleport, she most often opts to target Python, which is great for his experience curve. My plan B is setting up Lukas as bait near my deployment area with Clair nearby to help ORKO the Witch, but if Python makes the KO, all the better for him.

This is my deployment:

    1

  23456
789 A
  B  CD

- 1: Python (Killer Bow +3)
- 2: Luthier (Coral Ring)
- 3: Faye (Royal Shield)
- 4: Silque (Blessed Ring)
- 5: Forsyth (Steel Lance)
- 6: Lukas (Clive's Lance)
- 7: Mathilda (Dracoshield)
- 8: Gray (Leather Shield)
- 9: Clair (Lukas's Shield)
- A: Alm (Royal Sword +1)
- B: Tobin (Steel Lance +3)
- C: Clive (Ridersbane +3)
- D: Kliff (Steel Sword +4)

The way the movement tech works:

- Clair moves above Mathilda and Swaps with her
- Gray moves above Mathilda and Swaps with her
- Alm moves to the right of Gray, trades with him, and Swaps with Luthier
- Tobin moves to the right of Clair, trades with her, and Shoves Luthier
- Mathilda as far as she can and blocks the Bridge. She will be in range of the boss on Turn 2 Player Phase
- Luthier moves to exactly 5 squares below the River to the right of the Bridge. This will pull the Sniper to him
- Clive moves towards the Bridge, so that he can reach the square above Mathilda's on Turn 2 and attack the aforementioned Sniper

Furthermore, Python needs a few things to succeed:

- KO the Witch in the Forest on Turn 1 Player Phase or avoid her Thunder on Enemy Phase
- +1 Speed on his first level-up
- Score a critical hit on every Sniper he fights
- Score a critical hit on the boss

So obviously I had to reset a few times and play around with the Turnwheel to set this up. After the battle, I found that Tatarrah would indeed sometimes spawn Arcanist reinforcements, so I'll see what I can do of them on the final mandatory battle of Alm's Act 3.

**Turn Count:** 2

[Back](../README.md)
