# Act 3 - Alm - Northern Zofia Battle

Because Clive was lucky enough to get a Speed Fountain from Thieves' Shrine and +2 Speed from his two level-ups as a Paladin, he can double Fernand with the Ridersbane on this map, as well as all the other Cavaliers in his group. The only enemy in that group that threatens him is unsurprisingly the Arcanist, but Clive can force him into heal AI with a single round of combat. And because Clive has a 3HKO on the Arcanist, he'll end up taking at most one counter-attack from him. The only risk is in him randomly drawing a Witch to him after he's taken a Miasma from the Arcanist. While the Witch can't kill him with Fire, it does prevent the Arcanist's heal AI from getting activated and he instead makes the kill on Clive. This is circumvented using Mila's Turnwheel to change the Witch AI.

Next concern are the two Archers. These enemies are annoying, because I would rather have them attack Python on Enemy Phase, so that I can get some damage on them without wasting my units' turns. They always seem to prefer to target my own ranged units, and by starting off Python at the top of the left column in my deployment area, he can reach a square in range of both. Just in case, I'm also having Silque (on the left) and Faye (on the right) teleport Lukas and Forsyth to be in range of these Archers on Turn 2 Player Phase.

Speaking of which, because I can rely on Faye to sustain Silque at a range, she's going to be using the Dracoshield, at least until I find another item with built-in Recovery. I didn't end up needing to sustain Silque with Faye at all. Silque in fact got to chip in against an enemy Soldier to self-sustain.

Meanwhile, all of my other units moved in to assist in clearing the squad of enemies guarding the bridge. Faye Rescued Kliff on Turn 2 so that he could reach the entire enemy squad and ideally weaken them for my other units to take out on Turn 3. He got a lucky critical hit on a Knight, which meant that he would survive the entire Turn 2 Enemy Phase with enough HP to take a hit from Zakson on the Turn 3 Enemy Phase. This was important as Kliff needs to take out Zakson on Turn 4 Player Phase. This also freed up Faye to Physic Clive on Turn 3, to ensure that he wouldn't draw Fire from a Witch.

The Witches were the most annoying of all enemies because they tended to act somewhat unpredictably. The first one teleported to attack Forsyth on Turn 2, but this didn't faze me at all as he had enough bulk to go on the front lines against the bridge squad. If I hadn't used Physic on Clive, the second one could've been tempted to make the KO on the subsequent turn. As it turns out, he was back to almost full health by then and because Kliff even dodged Zakson's Javelin, not even he was an interesting target for her. Out of all people, she chose to target Faye, who barely took any damage thanks to the Dracoshield.

All in all, I got some good experience on Clive, Pythong, and Kliff, and managed to unlock a few extra abilities and supports:

- Lukas/Forsyth C
- Lukas/Python C
- Gray/Tobin C
- Silque Swap
- Forsyth Armorcrush

For my upcoming battles, I'm going to experiment a little, to see if I can take them on with relative ease in addition to map reinforcements. As long as they don't extend my turn count, the extra experience and Silver coins will be welcome.

**Turn Count:** 4

[Back](../README.md)
