# Act 3 - Alm - Retaking of the Sluice Gate

So after finally getting map reinforcements to spawn at the Sluice Gate, I got a chance to see what we're up against (excluding Delthea, but including map reinforcements):

## Top Area

| Enemy         | #   | Spell | DMG | HP  | DEF | RES | AS  |
| ------------- | --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| LV12 Arcanist | 3   | Mire  | 23  | 39  | 10  | 8   | 3   |
| LV16 Tatarrah | 1   | Death | 29  | 43  | 12  | 8   | 2   |

## Bottom Area

| Enemy         | #   | Spell  | DMG | HP  | DEF | RES | AS  |
| ------------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| LV3 Arcanist  | 6   | Miasma | 12  | 30  | 6   | 8   | 2   |
| LV5 Arcanist  | 1   | Mire   | 20  | 32  | 7   | 8   | 0   |
| LV10 Arcanist | 4   | Miasma | 15  | 37  | 9   | 8   | 5   |
| LV12 Arcanist | 1   | Mire   | 23  | 39  | 10  | 8   | 3   |

## Strategy

- As with the last battle, with careful usage of Swap and Shove, I can get Python and Silque in position to Warp him immediately after he KOs the left-most LV10 Arcanist on Turn 1. At 18 Attack, Silque has just enough distance to Warp Python in range of a single LV12 Arcanist, and able to move to attack a second one on his own on Turn 2 Player Phase, while also baiting only Tatarrah. This frees up Silque after Turn 1.
- Python has just enough Attack with the Killer Bow +3 to OHKO the LV12 Arcanists with a critical hit. He will need to score at least one critical hit on every LV12 Arcanist and Tatarrah to pull through. He can afford to take a hit every turn, but he'll be facing Tatarrah and a LV12 Arcanist on Enemy Phase, so he needs at least 24 HP left to survive Death and 18 HP for Mire. Faye will probably be on Physic duty on Turn 2 and she needs to be able to target Python then because Python starts off the battle with 34 HP and if he takes a single one, he's in range of being OHKO'd on that Enemy Phase by either Tatarrah or the Arcanist.
- Kliff can safely block the left part of the sluice by standing in the choke point that leads out of it. If no one stands immediately adjacent to him, he can even take out all except one LV3, one LV5, and one LV10.
- While Clair's mobility makes her an interesting option to pick off the LV12 Arcanist, I need her to Shove Silque on Turn 1 and if I try and Rescue her after she's done Shoving to be in position to attack that Arcanist, Faye can no longer reach Forsyth with Physic. My plan B for the the LV12 Arcanist is then to have Silque Warp Luthier on Turn 2, so that he can Excalibur x2 against the enemy. He needs only one critical hit.
- Mathilda will move to block the right part of the sluice, in range of three Arcanists. The two LV10 Arcanists will attack from 2-range, but the LV3 will be forced to attack from melee and suicide on her.
- Alm is used to Swap with Python, whereas Clair and Tobin will Shove Silque from below after trading around Lukas's Shield. Once this is done, Faye needs to move in a way that on Turn 2, she can move and reach the extent of Python's movement range with Physic. This should correspond to the square before reaching the Bridge, with a River square above her. She can Rescue Clair from here. It doesn't seem like a lot, but this allows Clair to fly directly above Mathilda, swap weapons for a better critical hit rate and ORKO the LV10 Arcanist there with a hit and a crit.
- Clive can move to Mathilda's right on Turn 2, trade weapons with her and ORKO the LV10 Arcanist on his right without needing a critical hit.
- The only remaining enemies are the ones on the left, near Kliff. Tobin is out of range, but if Alm Swaps with him, Tobin can reach the LV3 Arcanist on the Mountain square and ORKO with Excalibur if he scores a hit and a crit.
- Gray is in range of the LV10 Arcanist, whom he can chip with Fire for a level-up. Even though the LV10 Arcanist took damage, Mathilda is now wielding the Blessed Lance and she would need two critical hits to make this kill. Against the almost fresh LV5 Arcanist, she only needs one. Kliff can finish off the LV10 Arcanist.

Deployments:

123    456
   789  ABCD

- 1: Lukas: Clive's Lance
- 2: Gray: Dracoshield
- 3: Kliff: Steel Sword +4
- 4: Luthier: Coral Ring
- 5: Alm: Leather Shield
- 6: Faye: Blessed Ring
- 7: Mathilda: Ridersbane +3
- 8: Python: Killer Bow +3
- 9: Silque: Royal Shield
- A: Forsyth: Steel Lance
- B: Tobin: Steel Lance +3
- C: Clive: Blessed Lance
- D: Clair: Lukas's Shield

If the Arcanist reinforcements had not been there, the 2-turn clear would've been far easier. For one, it means having to deal with only 5 enemies instead of 12 in the bottom area. And even though most of the reinforcements suicided on Turn 1 Enemy Phase, I don't have enough viable ranged units to make the kills reliably by the end of Turn 2 Player Phase. If Lukas and Forsyth had learned Shove, they could've been used to get Python and Silque in position instead of doing mostly nothing for the entire battle. With only 2 turns to act, they just can't get into range of the enemies fast enough.

I backed up a Bookmark near the end of Turn 2 Player Phase, but the battle ends during Enemy Phase, where Python needs to dodge one attack and crit both opponents. He almost made it to LV10, but he also learned Hunter's Volley.

At the Sluice Gate Interior, I recruited Delthea, and looted the place. There's no point in doing grinding now, though. If I decide to do any, it'll be at least after Celica's Act 3 is complete, before moving into Rigel. That being said, before moving onto Celica's side of Act 3, I went back to the Forest Village to peddle the Killer Bow +3. The Deliverance Army will not see any combat before Celica's reached the Duma Temple in late Act 4.

**Turn Count:** 2

[Back](../README.md)
