# Act 3 - Alm - First Battle of Zofia Forest

I mentioned in my last log that I wanted to experiment with the possibility of adding map reinforcements to the normal enemies of a given battle. So I decided to scope out what the map reinforcements from Desaix looked like:

- 1x LV3 Paladin w/Silver Purse
- 1x LV3 Arcanist w/Mire and Fortify
- 2x LV7 Archer w/Iron Bow
- 6x LV7 Cavalier

That's a pretty hefty number of enemies and they all start off on the top-left part of the map. That Arcanist is scary, but maybe the fact that he carries Fortify is a blessing in disguise. Because Python has 15 Attack with Python's Bow, if I can get the Arcanist to use Fortify on Turn 1 Enemy Phase, he should be able to take him out on Turn 2 Player Phase with a normal attack. If he starts off at the left-most deployment slot, he can move within range of only the Archers on Turn 1. On Enemy Phase, they should attack him, take two attacks in retaliation and cause the Arcanist to cast Fortify to heal them. After Python takes out the Arcanist, Faye can Rescue him back to my main force while Clive mops up all the reinforcements with the Ridersbane. But is this enough to still allow a 3-turn clear of the remaining opponents?

The answer is yes, but not everything went according to plan and a lot of luck was involved. For one, even though Python did indeed damage both Archers enough to put them into heal AI, that didn't prompt the Arcanist to move in and heal them with Fortify. I suspect that the Arcanist might only use Fortify on allies that have yet to act during the turn and are on heal AI. As such, I instead had to secure a critical hit with Python on Turn 2 Player Phase with at least one of his attacks. In retrospect, I think I could've done without the critical hit because the two attacks on their own would've been sufficient to drive the Arcanist into his own heal AI and he would be tempted to move to the bottom-left Supplies square like his fellow Archers ended up trying to do, during which time he could've been picked off by Clive.

Among other lucky factors were having Tobin deal with both Mire Arcanists with Excalibur and scoring at least one critical hit against each. These were harder to do without as this prevented me from having to suffer through Mire more than once from each.

In any case, I decided to make a backup of the Bookmark right as I was about to make my last KO on Turn 3 Player Phase with Python. To review the turn-by-turn, just reload the Bookmark. I restored Mila's Turnwheel on this save to allow review of the entire battle.

Had I opted not to take the additional reinforcements, Clive and Python would've been free to provide more support against the Arcanists normally faced in this battle and make the 3-turn clear more reliable. Be that as it may, I'm not complaining as this ended up providing great rewards all around.

**Turn Count:** 3

[Back](../README.md)
