# Act 3 - Alm - Siege of Desaix's Fortress

I want to get a 3-turn clear on this map, while also fighting reinforcements, as this might very well allow Clive to reach LV10 and quite possibly let me focus on training Mathilda for the rest of Alm's Act 3, much like I did him. That being said, this is easier said than done. I took care of preparing a few forges in advance, to be able to hit certain benchmarks:

- Ridersbane +1: while Clive has no problem taking out all the Cavaliers and the Paladin with the unforged weapon on Turn 1 Enemy Phase, he needs 22 Attack to be able to ORKO the enemy Archers, and I might very well need him to take one of them out on Turn 2 Phase before moving in for the kill on the Cantor on Turn 3 Player Phase. He's on the verge of leveling up, but if he doesn't get Attack +1, the forged Ridersbane guarantees the ORKO and the extra hit will be helpful in the Tile squares.
- Killer Bow: The only enemy that threatens Clive from the start is the Mire Arcanist from the reinforcements. Python needs to take him out on Turn 1 Player Phase and he only needs single critical hit to achieve this. Since Python also has enough speed to double the enemy Archers, he also has a decent chance of taking more of them out on Turns 2-3.
- Steel Sword +3: Although Kliff will likely be picking it up after this battle is done, Alm can use the extra oomph to pick off weakened Knights here while Kliff sets up the kills with the Lightning Sword.
- Steel Lance +3: Forsyth wants this forge to be able to deal with the Witch on his own. To make her less unpredictable, Forsyth is going to be used as bait. If she uses Thunder on him twice, he not only survives with 10 HP, but can also take her out in one hit with Armorcrush with exact damage. He'll need to be Swapped and Rescued in position on Turn 1, to do so.

Positionining is crucial to achieve this goal, so here's the layout and composition:

   A  B C
D    E
 F  G    H  I
  J
     KL

- A: Forsyth - Killer Bow
- B: Alm - Steel Sword +3
- C: Clive - Ridersbane +1
- D: Lukas - Fernand's Lance
- E: Kliff - Lightning Sword
- F: Tobin - Lukas's Shield
- G: Silque - Blessed Ring
- H: Clair - Dracoshield
- I: Faye
- J: Gray - Leather Shield
- K: Luthier - Mila Carving
- L: Forsyth - Steel Lance +3

Why this positioning is important:

- Python is in range to attack the Arcanist on Turn 1
- Clive is in range to draw all the enemy Cavaliers and Paladins to fight him from a square with no terrain effect
- Alm can move behind Clive and pull one Archer
- Gray can Swap Forsyth up, so that Faye can Rescue him to a square where he can move inside the Witch's range. Clair needs to occupy the square on Faye's left to ensure that Forsyth gets Rescued to her right. On Turn 2, Faye can Rescue Clair a few squares north, just enough for her to be able to reach the Cantor from the right side on Turn 3.
- Tobin is in range to Swap with Silque, so that she can Warp Kliff into the fray. He wants to take the center Supplies and draw all four Knights to him.
- Luthier is in range to be Warped in on Turn 2.

At first, on this setup, I had the Dracoshield on Faye while Clair wielded Clive's Lance. This proved to be problematic as too many Archers would be left alive by the time I had to move Clair in and she would become target practice for them. That being said, seeing as I only needed two Rescues from Faye, she didn't need the HP recovery or the extra defense, so on Turn 1, I had Faye trade over the Dracoshield to Clair before Rescuing Forsyth. This turned out perfectly as Clair was no longer an interesting target for the enemy Archers when they could target a more vulnerable Python who wasn't standing on a terrain square. Python ended up taking out two Archers on Turn 2 Enemy Phase from retaliations alone.

Other interesting highlights: Kliff had to hit Desaix at least once with the Lightning Sword on Turn 1 Enemy Phase. This allowed him and Luthier to take him out on Turn 2 with a combination of Foudroyant (which he learned during Turn 1 Enemy Phase) and Fire x2. Otherwise, it was important that Kliff take as little damage as possible on Turn 1 Enemy Phase. Standing on the center Supplies made hit rates against him sub-20%.

Unsurprisingly, Clive took out all mounted enemies on Turn 1 Enemy Phase without issue, then an Archer on Turn 2 Player Phase, then finally the Cantor on Turn 3 Player Phase, right after a chip from Clair with the Dracoshield. Clair only hit him for 3 damage on her own, but the Cantor retaliated on her twice, and the 2 HP loss from Miasma was more than enough to place him within ORKO range of Clive. Alas, he didn't make it to LV10, but he's getting there.

The bait tactic with Forsyth worked perfectly. Because the Witch had a target in range on Turn 1, she didn't Teleport, and Forsyth moved a couple of squares north, remaining within her attack range, but in a way that forced her to move to a square with no terrain effects and within his own attack range. He took out the Witch on Turn 3 with Armorcrush.

Silque has been a Warping machine. After sending in Kliff, I prioritized Luthier and Tobin because the enemies in heal AI had taken to the Supplies squares. Luthier went in first because I still needed Gray and Tobin to Swap Python east, to allow him to make for the Fortress and become a good target for most of the remaining enemy Archers. Tobin even managed to learn Shove on Turn 3.

Alm got to chip in and make a few key KOs on Knights and a single Revenant, but Lukas was completely useless. He couldn't even get in range to provide a support bonus to Python. With only a single Silque to go around, I didn't have enough resources to send Lukas into the fray. Gray didn't see combat, but his three uses of Swap were quintessential to this victory.

I decided to make a Bookmark of the last unit activation on Turn 3 for review with Mila's Turnwheel. This is right before the Cantor KO with Clive.

After the battle, I moved to the Fortress Interior, rescued Mathilda, looted the place and proceeded to do a few key things:

- Completed A Bargain Bauble. A third item with built-in recovery means I can have both Faye and Silque on self-sustain while allowing someone else to carry the Dracoshield.
- Completed the Grand Duke of Dairy #3. This gets me a second Exotic Spice.
- Went back to the Deliverance Hideout to collect 4 bottles of Wine and a few extra Silver Marks. I was at 175 Silver after trading in my current alcohol and I needed a total of 230 for forging. This was more a matter of patience than anything else. For one, I had to reset often to set conditions for no map reinforcements (which also start spawning from Grieth's Citadel after defeating Desaix). Then, it was a matter of avoiding the enemies inside and finding some Wine. I didn't bother with other rewards, but I did take the time to break pots in case I stumbled onto Holey Cheese as it could be handed in for the Craving Cute quest later on. I was lucky enough to find one on the same trip where I collected my third bottle of Wine. All of this being said, grabbing more Holey Cheese is not high priority. With two, I can secure getting the two better rewards of Craving Cute. For the rest, I'll wait until Fear Mountain Shrine, where I can find Holey Cheese at a higher rate, as well as Sweet Cookies.
- Sold off the Exotic Spices and all my alcohol.

Of course, this looting was done with the intention of forging the following at the Forest Village Smithy:

- Royal Sword +1
- Ridersbane +3
- Killer Bow +2

While I would've certainly liked to fully forge the Killer Bow at this point, it took me long enough to get 4 bottles of Wine to warrant going for another 10. I can wait until later during the Act to maximize it. Because Clive is already very strong and close to LV10, he'll be able to function with the Steel Lance +3 I already have, whereas Malthida can now reach OHKO thresholds on enemy Cavaliers with the fully-forged Ridersbane. Kliff wants to reach Dread Fighter as quickly as possible and the Steel Sword +3 should allow him to do so within the next two battles, at most.

**Turn Count:** 3

[Back](../README.md)
