# Act 3 - Alm - Second Battle of Zofia Forest

Tatarrah doesn't send reinforcements on this battle, so no fancy tactics to pull off here. That being said, they're deploying out of Grieth's Citadel, so there might be possibilities for training up the Pilgrimage Army later on. That being said, after taking a look at the enemies at Zofia Forest 2, I realized that Kliff is one point of Attack short of being able to ORKO the low-level Cavaliers accompanying Lawson. This is a problem as he can't otherwise clear the 10 enemies in wo turns. As such, I need to upgrade the Steel Sword to +4, which will require 75 Silver Marks. I could sell off most of my provisions, but I'm going to need more money to finish forging the Killer Bow anyway. So back to the Deliverance Hideout. Target number: 5 bottles of Wine. On the bright side: I got some more Holey Cheese, so yay?

For reference, the way I go about this is to save each day before moving. If a map reinforcement spawns, I reset. After reloading my game, I hover over another army on the map, then save again, then repeat, until I manage to make map progress without triggering a reinforcement spawn, saving whenever I make progress. After reaching the Deliverance Hideout, the process is pretty much the same. As long as I reload my save, the same enemies and random treasure will be found inside. So should I go in and accidentally run into an enemy before getting a chance to check/loot all the barrels and pots, I can reset and try again. Before entering the dungeon, I always save, then wait a day to see if map reinforcements will spawn by the time I leave the dungeon and reset if not. Otherwise, I randomize the map reinforcements like I do during map movement. Randomizing the map reinforcements also randomizes enemies and treasure inside the Hideout. Unless I find Wine and/or Holey Cheese, I reset and randomize before trying again. Incidentally, I got almost all the Holey Cheese I'll need to complete Craving Cute.

That being said, this map is a simple 2-turn clear. On the left side, I give two of the front-liners to Mathilda and every one else to Clive. Mathilda OHKOs the two Cavaliers she faces, Clive ORKOs all the rest, except for the Paladin, whom he kills with a 3HKO. I would've liked to give more KOs to Mathilda, but Clive needed all of them to reach LV10, so after the battle I'm going to a Mila Idol to class change.

On the right side, Kliff didn't quite make it to LV10. He's only 28 experience points away. At 13 Attack with a Steel Sword +4, he ORKO'd the low-level Cavaliers, 3HKO'd the high-level Cavaliers and 5HKO'd Lawson, for maximum experience. To prevent the weakened high-level Cavaliers from switching to heal AI, I had Clair move onto the Supplies square in the middle of the map on Turn 2. As such, the enemies chose to suicide on Kliff.

I'm tempted to go and complete A Royal Requiem right now as it'll guarantee that Kliff starts off the next battle as a Dread Fighter. since I might be able to also get Faye to LV12 and Silque to LV11 if they take out some of the higher-level Specters. I'm going to try and see what the results are and if they're worth it, I'll complete the quest right now.

**Turn Count:** 2

[Back](../README.md)
