# Act 3 - Alm - A Royal Requiem

So after experimenting a little, I found out a few things:

- Kliff can reach LV10 by taking out the Sage. He can ORKO without any issues using the Steel Sword +4 and learn Sunder while he's at it.
- Taking out the Guardian doesn't bring Faye to LV12. It brings her about halfway there.
- Taking out the Guardian doesn't bring Silque to LV11, but she's at 99 experience after bonus experience. But this is not the end of the world, as a single casting of Recover will cause her to level up. As such, she should take the kill.
- The Guardian must be baited out of the treasure room and into an area with no map reinforcements. I have no means to guarantee that map reinforcements will all fall during Enemy Phase.
- The HP figures of the enemies when starting with initiative seem to be variable, but to make the 1-turn clear safely, I absolutely need for the Guardian to have at most 40 HP.
- To fight the Guardian without map reinforcements, you need to first lure out the Revenant in the room to the north of the Guardian's. This can be done by breaking into the first room to the left past the crossroads, and then shattering all containers. This will usually cause the Revenant in question to come to investigate. While the Revenant draws closer, Alm must leave the room and enter the one across and to the right or move in the direction of the Mila Idol area, to avoid being seen. When the Revenant peers into the room Alm vacated, you can simply walk behind the Revenant, go to the room with the Guardian and break in. By shattering the boxes to your right, the Guardian will move towards the noise. You can then strike the Guardian to start the battle with initiative right at the entrance to the room, ideally a few steps outside.
- If the Guardian starts with 41 HP or more, if a Titan spawns in the Hideout, or if the Revenant refuses to investigate, reset, randomize the contents of the Hideout and try again.

So to take out the opponents, this is my plan:

- Guardian: Luthier opens with Excalibur x2, crits once, hits once. Silque follows up with Nosferatu x2, hits twice. Luthier needs to crit once, hit once, and Silque must hit with Nosferatu twice.
- Sage: Kliff ORKOs with the Steel Sword +4.
- Myrmidon: Tobin opens with Excalibur, crits. Faye follows up with Nosferatu, hits. Faye can go into Melee range with the Dracoshield.
- Paladin: Gray opens with Fire, hits. Mathilda follows up with the Ridersbane, hits.
- Sniper: Clair opens with the Steel Lance +3, hits twice. Python follows up with the Killer Bow +2, hits.

Only Alm is left, but because the positioning is not easy, he'll have to Swap Tobin or Faye into position to attack the Myrmidon. He also can't start with the Leather Shield in hand as he doesn't inflict enough damage on initiative without the Royal Sword +1. But given that he can access the Convoy at all times, he can switch to the Leather Shield right at the start of battle. Exploration order will be:

- Alm - Royal Sword +1 into Leather Shield
- Gray - Lukas's Shield
- Faye
- Luthier
- Kliff - Steel Sword +4
- Mathilda - Ridersbane +3
- Tobin - Coral Ring
- Silque - Mila Carving, Faye will take it after Silque is done to increase her hit rates on the Myrmidon
- Clair - Steel Lance +3
- Python - Killer Bow +2

After the battle, I looted as many of the containers as I could afford to do safely (got a few Silver Marks and some Leftover Bread), then proceeded to class change Kliff to Dread Fighter. At this point, Tatarrah spawns Arcanist map reinforcements, so I might try and leverage Kliff's very high Resistance to get some experience into his new class, as the plan is to loop him back into Villager once he hits LV10 again, so that I can train a second Archer.

I also stopped by Zofia Castle to officially clear the quest, but the intent is to first explore the Sylvan Shrine before making for the next battle. Inside, Python will claim the Fountain of Resistance for himself as he'll be facing off against a lot of enemy Arcanists very soon. I also looted the Gold Mark in Area 2. The Gargoyles can be avoided altogether by simply running back to the entrance immediately after opening the chest. At the Mila Idol, the girl who was kidnapped by Gargoyles can be found and freed. Even though I could bring both my Clerics to class change with the Experience Fountain, I'm going to save it for later.

As I was going to complete a few quests for more rewards, I found out that I had reached my inventory limit (which appears to be at 98, not counting the items I can't discard or trade in). As such, I proceeded to do something that I was putting off for the time being: clearing inventory. Because I want to eventually win the Gourmand Award, I kept an Orange for a quest, all my Holey Cheese, my Black Pearl, plus one of each Provision I had yet to eat. This got me all the Silver Marks I needed to finish forging the Killer Bow and then some.

After that, I completed Goylenapped, which allowed me to start collecting on Craving Cute. I made sure to get the Fruit of Life, the Cog, and a single Yogurt for later, but made sure to trade in my remaining Holey Cheese for Silver Marks only.

After forging the Killer Bow to the utmost, I revisited Sylvan Shrine to collect the Handmade Doll and read the note for the completion of another quest later on.

**Turn Count:** 1

[Back](../README.md)
