# Act 3 - Alm - One Man's Trash...

Before getting on with the main battles of Act 3, I grabbed two quests at Zofia Castle, one of which requires to eliminate an Entombed at the Deliverance Hideout and recover the Lima Armlet. Because I'm planning to have Silque drink the last Fountain of Attack at the Hideout, I figure it's as good a time as any to complete this quest, especially since it awards Silver coins that I want for forging when I reach the Forest Village.

That being said, there's a big problem with this quest: the Entombed are in the room with the treasure chest that bore the Silver Purse in Act 1. This is inconvenient because there's always a group of Revenants in this room in addition to the Entombed and my units barely have enough firepower to take out the Entombed's group, much less Revenant reinforcements with HP ranges that exceed my ability to ORKO with any unit.

As such, I had to stand by the entrance to the room, then make some noise to draw out the Entombed, and finally pull them all the way back to the first crossroads going into the Hideout, where I need to also get the initiative on the battle. It took me a few tries to set up the right conditions for it, but I pulled off the 1-turn clear:

- Python w/Python's Bow and Curved Shot, plus Forsyth w/Steel Lance were required to take out the Entombed itself.
- Gray w/Fire, Silque, and Clive w/Clive's Lance were required to take out one of the Revenants.
- Faye, Clair, and Kliff were required to take out another.
- Alm w/Iron Sword and Tobin w/Excalibur were required for the last one.

This managed to get me a few level-ups, notably on Clive and Python. After the battle, I went to the Attack Fountain so bring Silque up to 16 Attack and increase her Warp range. Sadly, no Wine was found in the Hideout, but the level-ups were quite good. Though I still have Clair on Lukas's Shield, I'll switch her to a Lance so that Alm, Tobin, or Gray can get to work on Shove.

I returned to Zofia Castle to complete One Man's Trash and collected the next quest in the line: A Royal Requiem. I decided to scope out the Deliverance Hideout for the Specters I must defeat, but these are way out of my league for my current army (not counting random map reinforcements):

| Guardian   | LV8 | Royal Shield | Abilities    |
| ---------- | --- | ------------ | ------------ |
| HP         | 46  |              | Lance        |
| Attack     | 28  |              | Armored      |
| Skill      | 8   |              | Great Terror |
| Speed      | 4   | -2           |              |
| Luck       | 0   |              |              |
| Defense    | 24  | +3           |              |
| Resistance | 8   | +3           |              |
| Movement   | 5   |              |              |

| Sage       | LV3 | Abilities  |
| ---------- | --- | ---------- |
| HP         | 29  | Fire       |
| Attack     | 13  | Sagittae   |
| Skill      | 9   | Recover    |
| Speed      | 8   | Discipline |
| Luck       | 0   |            |
| Defense    | 7   |            |
| Resistance | 9   |            |
| Movement   | 4   |            |

| Sniper     | LV5 | Abilities   |
| ---------- | --- | ----------- |
| HP         | 35  | Bow         |
| Attack     | 14  | Bowrange +2 |
| Skill      | 8   |             |
| Speed      | 8   |             |
| Luck       | 0   |             |
| Defense    | 8   |             |
| Resistance | 2   |             |
| Movement   | 5   |             |

| Paladin    | LV10 | Abilities |
| ---------- | ---- | --------- |
| HP         | 39   | Lance     |
| Attack     | 17   | Mounted   |
| Skill      | 10   |           |
| Speed      | 13   |           |
| Luck       | 0    |           |
| Defense    | 13   |           |
| Resistance | 6    |           |
| Movement   | 8    |           |

| Myrmidon   | LV12 | Abilities |
| ---------- | ---- | --------- |
| HP         | 40   | Sword     |
| Attack     | 17   |           |
| Skill      | 17   |           |
| Speed      | 20   |           |
| Luck       | 0    |           |
| Defense    | 11   |           |
| Resistance | 6    |           |
| Movement   | 5    |           |

So no Royal Shield for me right now. I'll have to return here later, probably towards before starting Alm's Act 4. Promoting Silque, Faye, or Delthea should give me the firepower to avoid having to deal with the Guardian on Enemy Phase by virtue of Seraphim, and I'll need Python with Hunter's Volley or Alm with Double Lion to burn through the Myrmidon.

For now, let's get started with Alm's Act 3 proper.

**Turn Count:** 1

[Back](../README.md)
