# Act 3 - Celica - Attack on the Desert Stronghold

So I had to experiment a lot for this battle. I wanted to see if I could include additional map reinforcements, ideally of the Brigand variety. After a lot of randomization of map reinforcements, I discovered a few things:

- Map reinforcements from Grieth's Citadel always head for the Southern Desert first.
- Map reinforcements on the Southern Desert never move to the Desert Stronghold unless two sets of map reinforcements are at that location.
- Clearing the Attack on the Desert Stronghold with additional Brigand reinforcements is possible within a 4-turn window, but requires getting 1-2 level-ups with +1 Defense on Leon for him to survive. Not to mention scoring critical hits against nearly every opponent on the map.
- Even if that clear is made, this leaves a set of map reinforcements in the Southern Desert after the battle, who automatically team up with Sonya.
- This prevents exploring the Desert Stronghold Interior before fighting against Deen or Sonya as the reinforcements will always move to cut off your exit from the Desert Stronghold Interior, forcing you to battle them on the same map.
- If I want to fight Deen, the map reinforcements at the Southern Desert will move to cut off my route back to the Mountain Village.
- If I want to fight Sonya, I need to do so with the added map reinforcements, and without Jesse and the Rion Shield.

So this might be a case where I can't have my cake and eat it, too. I usually prefer recruiting Sonya because this gets me a Brave Sword earlier, she comes with a Steel Shield, and she's more relevant to the story, being one of Jedah's daughters, but this cuts me out of the possibility of fighting two groups of map reinforcements and the Northern Desert Battle takes longer to clear, even without map reinforcements. Jesse missing out on the desert battle isn't the end of the world, but the Rion Shield is nice to have on Mae as this allows her to ORKO all the Witches in Sonya's battle reliably and learn Shove while she's at it. That being said, it won't be critical to success as she still ORKOs Fire Witches at base with her own Fire magic, and I'll also have Catria, Palla, Atlas, and Leon to help deal with the Thunder Witches.

Beyond these practical considerations for the battle, Deen will probably make a better addition to the team, especially if I can build his support with Jesse later on. Not to mention that he'll be closer to Dread Fighter than either Saber, Kamui or Jesse can hope to be by the time I finish Grieth's Citadel. So against my initial plan, I'm going to forgo recruiting Sonya on this run.

All of that being said, the Attack on the Desert Stronghold wasn't trivial with a clear goal of 4 turns. I initially based my strategy around this video:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qdlwrdK4ahQ

The video doesn't include map reinforcements and this is an important difference as Leon ends up facing a lot more combat when reinforcements are added. Going for Myrmidon reinforcements is not a viable option as they almost all deal more damage at base to Leon and they double him to boot. Even he crits them on the counter-attack, he still takes too much damage initially and he cannot make it.

On the other hand, the Brigand reinforcements are less of a threat for Leon. Not only that, but they also include a juicy Mire Arcanist for Atlas to ORKO. He can do it on Turn 2 Player Phase without facing retaliation, but with Genny and Celica, I could Swap and Shove him into position to do it on Turn 1 Enemy Phase instead. Taking a Mire hit is not good in itself, but this has the nice side-effect of pulling the left-most Mercenary to the left, where he can be picked off by a combination of Atlas, Kamui, and Saber. This also takes off some pressure on Leon towards the end of the fight.

On the right flank, Leon can pick off one of the Brigands on Turn 1 Player Phase, before getting Shoved closed to the stronghold by Valbar. Mae and Boey will move as far as they can toward the stronghold, meanwhile Catria will move to bait the right-most Arcanist to a square where Mae can move adjacent to her on Turn 2. This is important as should the Arcanist survive that Enemy Phase, Mae can take him out with Thunder if needed. However, regardless of whether or not the Arcanist survives, Valbar must first Shove Leon to the left again. Mae can then move adjacent to both Valbar and Catria, take the Iron Shield from Valbar and either KO the Arcanist with Thunder or use Recover on Catria. After that, Boey can move to Mae's right, take the Iron Shield and Shove her closer to Leon so that on Turn 3, she can help sustain him without having to be Shoved again. This also frees up Boey on Turn 3 to Shove Valbar into position to gain support points with Leon.

Palla on Turn 1 will bait the Brigand with the Silver Purse. If he survives, Catria can finish him off on Turn 2 Player Phase, while Palla begins working on another Brigand and puts herself into position to draw out another of the enemy Mercenaries. She'll be doubled by that Mercenary on Turn 2 Enemy Phase, but given that she gets to retaliate, the sisters will be able to take him out without facing retaliation on Turn 3. With these guidelines in mind, I went into the battle.

Left Area Deployments:

```
12
3 4
 56
```

Right Area Deployments:

```
  7
 8
 9A
B
```

- 1: Atlas (Iron Bow +5)
- 2: Genny (Leather Shield)
- 3: Saber (Steel Sword)
- 4: Palla (Steel Lance +4)
- 5: Celica (Iron Shield)
- 6: Kamui (Blessed Sword)
- 7: Leon (Killer Bow +3)
- 8: Boey (Steel Shield)
- 9: Valbar (Iron Shield)
- A: Mae (Clair's Lance)
- B: Catria (Javelin +3)

I decided to put the Steel Shield on Boey because it will wind up on Mae by the end of Turn 2 Player Phase and it's possible that she'll face combat later on, so I might as well get some SP towards Defensive if I can't get them towards Shove. Both of these abilities will be provided by the Rion Shield later on, so neither is a loss for her.

As expected, the last turn was the most complicated one. One of the Mercenaries would always move to block the entrance to the stronghold, which prevented Leon from getting into position to draw out the left-most Archer who had only a 1-3 attack range. Because of this, I had to preemptively use Atlas to weaken him on Turn 3, so that Mae could KO him with Thunder on Turn 4 after a Shove from Boey. This made Turn 4 Enemy Phase clear a possibility, but it relied on Leon dodging a lot, in addition to scoring critical hits. Palla also needed to KO a Mercenary in the Forest square using the forged Javelin at one point.

That being said, the end result was satisfactory. Leon learned Hunter's Volley, earned a lot of support points with Valbar. He even got +3 Defense from three level-ups, which will hopefully be useful in later maps, when baiting physical units. Mae got a couple of SP towards both Shove and Defensive, as well as more support points with Boey. Atlas's level-up was less than spectacular, but at least Catria got +1 Attack. Palla is at 99 experience points, so I can even afford to rig her a good level up at the start of the next battle.

Now, since the Southern Desert has both Sonya and Brigand reinforcements, I cannot afford to visit the Desert Stronghold Interior yet. I'm going straight south to clear the map first, and return to the stronghold later.

**Turn Count:** 4

[Back](../README.md)
