# Act 3 - Celica - Southern Desert Battle

So without Jesse, I'm one deployment spot short. That being said, this slot is to the right of #7 (see below) and none of my units needs it to secure a 3-turn clear. The most iffy part of this battle is manipulating the Witch AI. Hopefully, the fact that I can just put Clair's Lance on my Speed 6 Valbar will dissuade Witches from attacking him, seeing as they can't double him anyway. The goal is to push Leon and Mae forward and have them take the brunt of the action, while Atlas, Palla, and Catria focus on the enemies along the right side.

On the left, Mae will need to be Shoved on Turns 1 and 2, and while she features Resistance 11, the fact that she will retaliate with Fire a lot of the time means that I want Celica to make her way down so that she can try and heal Mae on Turn 3 as Genny will most likely be busy keeping Leon hale and hearty. Genny also needs to remain in the back to trick the Witches into not teleporting behind my own lines.

Deployments:

```
  1
23  456 7
 89
A  B
```

- 1: Celica (Leather Shield)
- 2: Genny (Blessed Ring)
- 3: Valbar (Clair's Lance)
- 4: Kamui (Blessed Sword)
- 5: Saber (Steel Sword)
- 6: Palla (Steel Lance +4)
- 7: Atlas (Iron Bow +5)
- 8: Mae (Iron Shield)
- 9: Boey (Iron Shield)
- A: Leon (Killer Bow +3)
- B: Catria (Javelin +3)

The battle was cleare in 3 turns without too much hassle, although I had to adjust my approach on the right-hand side a bit. While it was no issue for Atlas to take out the Mire Arcanist on his own on Turn 2, if I decided to have Palla and Catria focus on taking out a Thunder Witch safely, this opened up a path for a second Thunder Witch and the Archer to reach him and this was enough to take him out, despite standing on a Supplies square. So I instead had the sisters take out the Archer and body-block the path to Atlas. On the left, Boey, Valbar, and Celica played a game of Shove and Swap to both get Mae into position and move Celica in range to heal if necessary. I managed to accomplish a lot of good stuff here:

- Got two full levels on Atlas. He's now strong enough to ORKO the Mire Arcanists at Grieth's Citadel.
- Got level-ups on Catria and Palla and unlocked their C support.
- Got another level-up on Leon. He's a mere 45 experience points from reaching LV10. I'm almost tempted to rush him to Bow Knight in the Mountain Graveyard, but I'll scope out Grieth's Citadel with Brigand reinforcements to see if I need the extra bulk and movement on him. I would rather save these skirmishes for the completion of two quests later on.
- Learned Shove on Mae.

After the battle, I finally visited the Desert Stronghold Interior, recruited Jesse and looted the place.

**Turn Count:** 3

[Back](../README.md)
