# Act 1 - Second Battle of Southern Zofia

While Clair could technically meet up with the Cavalier reinforcements early, she lacks the firepower to take them out on her own. Otherwise, the other units can come within their attack range by Turn 4 at the earliest. And since not even the Lightning Sword can ORKO these enemies, the shortest clear is five turns. These enemies are rather tough and required that I attack with 2-3 of my units per enemy. So this was a good opportunity to gain some SP with multiple characters.

Alm's 5 Movement allowed him to easily bait the opening waves of enemy Cavaliers. Meanwhile, Kliff moves as quickly as possible towards the bridge crossing the river, to create a chokepoint to the right of the Forest square by Turn 4 Player Phase. Meanwhile, the rest of the units focus on taking out the other four Cavaliers and move closer to the bridge in order to be able to attack the reinforcements on Turn 5 Player Phase.

Silque and Faye got enough interaction to secure their C support for some extra critical avoidance. I had already secured Tobin and Kliff's C support as well, but I forgot to mention it earlier.

Important items:

**Iron Sword**: Alm kept this on him during the entire battle and got some SP towards Wrath Strike, but has yet to learn the art. My plan is to use it later to setup kills for other units.
**Lightning Sword**: Kliff's bread and butter still. More SP towards Thunderclap.
**Leather Shield** and **Lukas's Shield**: they were passed around by multiple units, but I focused mostly on Gray and Tobin (because they had already gained Swap SP), as well as Clair (because a flyer with Swap utility will be useful in compensating for their low Movement). I managed to teach Swap to both Mages and Clair is almost done with it.

Team goals have not changed:

- Warp on Silque
- Excalibur on Tobin
- Myrmidon Kliff
- Physic on Faye

**Turn Count:** 5

[Back](../README.md)
