# Act 1 - Battle Preparations

I first explored the Deliverance Hideout, recruited Clive, Forsyth, and Python, and raided the place of all its treasure. I also made a number of additional incursions just to break open some barrels in search of Wine. Because I don't have to worry about map reinforcements during Act 1, it was the perfect opportunity to specifically hunt for these as they sell for 12 Silver in Act 3. Besides, most Terrors weren't drawn to distant noise unless I broke pots, so I focused primarily on the barrels once I caught on.

Before going to Zofia Gate, I used this opportunity to grind my units because I wanted to be able to claim Desaix's Dracoshield. This is a great time to do it because there are no map reinforcements. I use two locations to grind more efficiently:

- Thieves' Shrine: the idea is to aggro the two groups of Brigands as I enter the main area, while making a run towards the third group, nearer to the Mila Idol area, and then attack him, so that the party starts the encounter at the center of the battlefield, with reinforcements on both sides. This allows me to battle 9 Brigands at once and they can all be cleared out in a single turn, between Player and Enemy Phases. Since this also clears out all enemies in the dungeon, I can also break every single barrel, crate, and pot, and cut all the grass for random Silver.

- Deliverance Hideout: there are two rooms in this dungeon that will occasionally spawn an Entombed encounter. It features at the very least one L1 Entombed, one LV10 Revenant, and two LV5 Revenants. This can happen in the very first room on the right, and the last room on the left before reaching the Mila Idol area from the Main Area. When encountered in the latter, they will also be reinforced with 4 more Revenants from a different room. These encounters are better fought with a higher-level party, but they can both be cleared in a single turn. Not only that but the Entombed itself grants a lot of XP and it was my means of getting Faye from L6 to almost L10 in only turns total. In fact, she's at 93 XP, so when she first heals Silque after she starts Warping units into Zofia Castle, she'll learn Rescue. These encounters were not guaranteed, so I usually made myself a route around most barrels of the dungeon, in search of Wine. I didn't bother breaking pots because the sound draws too many Revenants and the boxes don't have worthwhile items to sell.

 My growth objectives were:

- Silque: Warp
- Faye: Physic (she's at 93 XP, so she'll learn Rescue on Turn 1, next battle)
- Tobin: Excalibur
- Kliff: Myrmidon
- Python: Sniper
- Clive: Paladin
- Lukas: Knight
- Forsyth: Knight

I also tried to get some work done on new abilities, particularly getting Swap on as many characters as possible and Shove on Clair as well. She didn't quite make it to Shove, but I expect she'll learn it in the next battle. Class changing Lukas and Forsyth gave me two very durable units with whom to box in Desaix.

I made a final stop at the Thieves' Shrine to give Clive a single use of the Speed Fountain, so that he can double all enemies other than Slayde with the Steel Lance or Fernand's Lance. I found a Bread in a box while I was at it.

**Turn Count:** 6 in Thieves' Shrine, 4 in Deliverance Hideout

[Back](../README.md)
