# Act 1 - Siege of Zofia Castle (DLC)

Because this is a Defense Map, it can only be completed in ten turns. It's a fairly easy one, too. All you have to do is to hold the top-most position. My strategy was to hold the three choke points leading into the area to defend:
- The most dangerous enemy units are Mages, but only one of them can get into range to attack your units within the turn limit.
- I placed Clive on the center Tile, so that he would always be facing an enemy on a square with no terrain bonus.
- I did the same with Forsyth on the right Tile leading into the Defense Area.
- I didn't actually block off the left entry into the Defense Area, but only a single Cavalier made it in, and only on Turn 9 Enemy Phase, so this was never a concern.
- Python would move around behind the ramparts, picking off targets or helping KO them. He would trade away the Iron Bow to double enemy Archers when they were not on squares with terrain bonuses, or use Curved Shot when he couldn't double.
- Lukas could attack over the ramparts using Longearche.
- Fernand, Mathilda, and Clair would trade around the Javelin to also attack over the ramparts.
- I took special measures to deal with the first Mage by sending Clair and Mathilda out with the Javelin.
  - Clair would lead by attack from the Tile left of the Supplies to the left of the defense area.
  - Malthida would move to the Supplies Tile, trade the Javelin, and finish off the Mage. This way, she blocks Clair from enemy Soldiers as well.
  - Once they were done, they returned into the Defense Area, where Clair healed the damage she incurred from the Mage in the top-most Supplies tile.
- I also took special measures when Slayde charged the Defense Area because he could double Clive.
  - Clive moved back behind the ramparts to get on Javelin duty.
  - Mathilda took his spot and the Steel Lance to kill Slayde faster.
  - Once Slayde was out, they reverted to their prior roles.
- Even though the objective is to Defend for 9 Turns, victory is only registered at the start of Turn 10, hence the 10-turn clear.

**Turn Count:** 10

[Back](../README.md)