# Act 1 - Storming of Ram Valley

In order to minimize the turn count, Gray moves to the mountains to take out the Mercenary while the rest of the team rushes the remaining enemies. Gray can encounter the Mercenary on Turn 4 Player Phase, and Fire is a 3HKO on the Mercernary. As such, the remaining enemies should ideally be taken out by the end of Turn 5. This is possible because Tobin is fast enough to double all enemies and leaves them within KO range of anybody else.

I equipped the following:

- Kliff - **Iron Sword**: although Kliff will soon be moving to the Lightning Sword, he can use the extra damage from the Iron Sword. This also allows Alm to chip in without KOing opponents.
- Lukas - **Fernand's Lance**: as before, useful for chip damage and working towards Longearche. That being said, enemies with 3 Speed are more common, so Lukas is doubling less and less frequently.
- Gray - **Lukas's Shield**: The enemy Mercenary will double everyone on the team. While the Mountains offer avoid to Gray as he fights the Mercenary, the shield guarantees survival and gives Gray three rounds towards Swap.
- Silque - **Mila Carving**: the extra +5 Luck helps her avoid low-percentage critical hits, which is useful since Silque wants to face combat early on.

At this point in time, we're developing the team towards the following goals:

- Warp on Silque
- Excalibur on Tobin
- Myrmidon Kliff
- Physic on Faye

As such, Alm and Lukas should avoid taking kills and instead only help set up kills for everyone else. Tobin is particularly good for setting up kills, since he doubles everyone and most enemies have 0 Resistance. I used Mila's Turnwheel to secure kills for Silque. Also, after this battle, I now have Leather Shield, which means an extra source of Swap.

**Turn Count:** 5

[Back](../README.md)
