# Act 1 - First Battle of Southern Zofia

This map can be cleared in as little as three turns if Kliff with the Lightning Sword makes it to the edge of the Cavaliers' attack range by that time. As such, it's a matter of taking out the other enemies within that time, while making sure that the bulk of the experience goes to Silque, Tobin, and Faye. The remaining units mostly chip in and begin working on abilities. To avoid having to take kills on other units, I made good use of the fact that Tobin's Defense is lower than that of other front-liners, so a little chip damage goes a long way into getting them to suicide on him during Enemy Phase.

I equipped the following:

- Alm - **Lukas's Shield**: I decided not to give him the Iron Sword, because doing so leaves the two enemy Soldiers who attack him with enough HP to be on heal AI, but no low enough to attempt to have them suicide on Silque. The shield lets him gain SP towards Shove, but also makes it so that the Archer initially attacks Kliff instead, which is more SP towards Thunderclap. During the battle, Faye borrowed the shield to gain Swap SP while she kills a Soldier she couldn't double to begin with.
- Kliff - **Lightning Sword**: his bread and butter until the Forest Village in Act 3. On this map, he can ORKO every opponent, except for the boss. He'll end up weakening him for Silque to take the KO, take out a Soldier on Turn 3 Player Phase, and another Soldier plus the two Cavaliers during Enemy Phases.
- Gray - **Leather Shield**: also contributes to the Archer targetting Kliff on Turn 1 Enemy Phase. He ended up trading the shield around with Lukas for a while and is 1 SP short of learning Swap now.
- Lukas - **Clive's Lance**: I initially gave him the lance, but he ended up not needing it, and instead traded around the Leather Shield, as it allowed him to keep doubling some of the Soldiers while taking little damage in return. But being able to chip in twice with the Leather Shield got him 2 SP for Swap.
- Silque - **Mila Carving**: as before, Silque faces a lot of combat and she needs to avoid critical hits to be able to retaliate and kill.
- Clair - **Fernand's Lance**: she could double all the opponents she ended up facing with it. SP towards Longearche is not bad, but I would have set her on one of my shields if I didn't otherwise need them on the front lines.

Team goals have not changed:

- Warp on Silque
- Excalibur on Tobin
- Myrmidon Kliff
- Physic on Faye

**Turn Count:** 3

[Back](../README.md)
