# Act 1 - Liberation of Zofia Castle

This was the most difficult battle as yet. I wanted to obtain Desaix's Dracoshield by defeating him while keeping Slayde alive. All of this while aiming for a minimal turn count for the entire battle. My initial attempt was based on Faerghast's demonstration:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yj3ycEJAyZE

The idea is to lure Slayde to the right area of the map, get him into heal AI, and keep him locked in an endless cycle of trying to find the shortest path to the Supplies squares where Desaix lies waiting. It relies on leveraging a Myrmidon with the Lightning Sword and a Paladin with the Leather Shield to deal with most Slayde's Cavalier units and get him into heal AI. At the same time, Clair flies to open the northeast Door as quickly as possible. Once almost all of the enemy Cavaliers are dealt with and Slayde starts harrassing your Myrmidon, you trap him in an endless loop by controlling the passage between the eastern ramparts and the center area with a unit that Slayde can't ORKO altogether. When Slayde is locked in, Desaix is drawn out (ideally to a square without terrain effects), trapped between a few tanky units, then slowly chipped away by a slew of ranged units.

I cleared this objective on my initial attempt in 16 turns. Kliff and Clive took care of most of the enemy units and lured Slayde into the ramparts. Clair, with Lukas's Shield, was tough enough not to tempt Slayde into attacking her while in heal AI. While this worked out pretty well, Slayde was held back due to a bottleneck, which prevented from moving my other units forward, thus delaying the moment when I could engage Desaix himself (I engaged him on turn 11 or 12, IIRC). Otherwise, having multiple Mages helped making the Desaix kill much faster, especially Tobin, whom I tried to keep within support range of Alm to increase his odds of scoring multiple critical hits with Excalibur. When Desaix fell, only the enemy Knight was left alive, and I didn't have enough units left to take him out, so that cost me an extra turn.

So while I did score the Dracoshield, I wasn't satisfied with the overall turn count. The biggest flaw in this approach was Slayde getting bottlenecked and preventing my other units from moving forward. So I looked at another video that showed a low turn clear of this battle, sans the Dracoshield, by ussgordoncaptain:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MBMM5WgWZBg

Unlike Faerghast's attempt, this one rushed head on, and tried to aggro Slayde and the enemy Cavaliers as early as Turn 2 Enemy Phase. It relies on using Warp to send Myrmidon Kliff and Mage Tobin ahead to deal with the two Archers on the ramparts, and then draw out Slayde and his Cavaliers. This would be great, if it weren't for the fact that he also tries to kill Slayde on Turn 3 Player Phase, whereas I actually want to spare him altogether. That being said, I used this approach as a baseline for my own strategy.

Deployments (left-to-right, then top-to-bottom order):
- Gray (Bread Piece)
- Python (Python's Bow)
- Lukas (Clive's Lance)
- Faye (Leftover Bread)
- Clair (Lukas's Shield)
- Silque (Bread Piece)
- Kliff (Lightning Sword)
- Alm (Iron Sword)
- Tobin (Leather Shield)
- Forsyth (Fernand's Lance)
- Clive (Steel Lance)

Turn-by-turn:
-Turn 1 Player Phase:
  - Silque moves above Kliff, Warps him in as far north as possible.
  - Kliff moves as far north as possible, and ORKOs the top Archer on the ramparts.
  - Faye moves as far north as possible, Physics Silque, and gains a level, learning Rescue.
  - Clair moves within the attack range of the left-hand Archers, waiting two squares to the right of the Bridge.
  - Gray and Python move left to the limit of their Movement.
  - Tobin moves to the square north of the Forest to his left.
  - Clive moves as far north as he can.
  - Lukas moves behind Faye, Forsyth behind Lukas, and Alm stays put.
- Turn 1 Enemy Phase:
  - The Archer on the ramparts attacks Kliff without moving.
  - The Archer to the right of the left Door moves one square right and attacks Clair.
- Turn 2 Player Phase:
  - Python moves in front of the Door and attacks the right Archer. Clair flies into the corridor and KOs this Archer from his left. Gray moves to stand below Python.
  - Silque moves to the left of Tobin and Warps him as far north and left as possible.
  - Tobin moves to the square below Kliff's and ORKOs the remaining Archer on the ramparts with Fire.
  - Clive moves as far in as he can (to the square just vacated by Tobin).
  - Faye moves as far north as possible, Rescues Forsyth to the square left of her.
  - Forsyth moves as far west as he can, Lukas tails Faye. Alm moves to the square left of Silque.
  - Kliff moves to stand three squares north of Tobin.
- Turn 2 Enemy Phase:
  - The left-hand Archer attacks Gray without moving.
  - Both of Slayde's Archers move out to attack Kliff. Only the first one can do so without retaliation, the second one attacks from 2-Range and Kliff ORKOs him on the counter-attack.
  - The two closest Cavaliers move to attack Kliff as well. They both get doubled and are now on heal AI.
  - Slayde moves to the square left and bottom of Kliff, but is unable to attack. The remaining Cavaliers move as far downward as they can, clustering around Kliff and the enemy Archer.
- Turn 3 Player Phase:
  - Clair opens the Door. Python moves as far in as he can, and attacks the Archer to the left of Clair. Gray moves to the right of Clair, and KOs the Archer.
  - Kliff moves to the left of Tobin, and doubles Slayde, putting him into heal AI.
  - Clive moves to the square Kliff vacated and KOs the Cavalier to his left.
  - Tobin moves to his left, and ORKOs the Archer with Fire.
  - Faye moves as far west as she can, Physics Kliff.
  - Silque moves to the left of Alm, Warps him in. Alm moves as far north as he can, but stays adjacent to the left wall.
  - Forsyth moves as far in as he can, Lukas keeps tailing Faye.
- Turn 3 Enemy Phase:
  - The Cavalier on heal AI moves next to Arcanist, Arcanish Recovers him.
  - Two fresh Cavaliers attack Alm and get doubled by him on the counter-attack.
  - The other two fresh Cavaliers attack Clive. Clive lands three out of four counter-attacks. One of the Cavaliers is on heal AI.
  - Slayde retreats, but does not yet make it to the Supplies (he's three squares south of Desaix).
- Turn 4 Player Phase:
  - Clair moves within support range of Alm, and Alm doubles the Cavalier above him. Python moves to the left of Forsyth, and KOs this Cavalier.
  - Clive moves to stand two squares to his right (moving around the enemy Cavaliers) and KOs the Cavalier to his left, who was on heal AI.
  - Kliff moves to the right of Tobin and ORKOs the other Cavalier Clive had weakened.
  - Faye moves as far west as she can, Rescues Silque.
  - Silque moves to the square above Python's and weakens the Cavalier to the right of Alm with Nosferatu. Forsyth moves to the square above hers and KOs the Cavalier.
  - Tobin moves to the limit of the attack range for the Arcanist and Archers.
  - Gray and Lukas move towards the center.
- Turn 4 Enemy Phase:
  - The Arcanist moves to attack Tobin. Tobin doubles him on the counter-attack.
  - The remaining Cavalier does the same, and is put back into heal AI.
  - Slayde moves to the Supplies square on the right, while the left-hand Archer moves to the square he vacated to take a shot at Tobin, who cannot retaliate.
- Turn 5 Player Phase:
  - Python moves to two squares above Forsyth, and ORKOs the Arcanist without facing retaliation.
  - Kliff moves to the square below Tobin and KOs the remaining Cavalier.
  - Tobin moves one square up, and ORKOs the Archer with Excalibur.
  - Silque moves above Faye to Recover her.
  - Faye moves as far north as she can, Rescues Tobin to avoid drawing out Desaix just yet.
  - Alm moves four squares up and eats Hard Bread from Provisions. Clive moves to his right and does the same. He's in the attack range of the remaining Archer and Slayde. Clair moves to the left of Alm and drinks Drinking Water from Provisions.
  - Gray, Lukas, and Forsyth move as far in as they can.
- Turn 5 Enemy Phase:
  - Archer moves to attack Clive who cannot retaliate.
  - Slayde heals back to 15 HP and moves in to attack Clive. Clive retaliates and puts him back on heal AI.
- Turn 6 Player Phase:
  - Python moves two squares to the right of Clive and takes a shot at the Archer.
  - Silque moves to the left of Lukas, Warps him above Slayde
  - Lukas KOs the Archer with Wrath Strike and will bait out Desaix.
  - Faye moves above Silque, Talks to her, Physics Tobin.
  - Tobin moves as far east as he can, to the edge of the attack range of the Soldier. Clive moves to his right and trades items to equip the Leather Shield.
  - Forsyth moves two squares below Clair. He will be safe from Desaix while Lukas draws him out, but is within range to trap him.
  - Clair flies to the left-hand entry into the Supplies area, outside Desaix's attack range.
  - Kliff moves to Faye's right to block access to her and Slayde might read a kill on her. Alm does the same and blocks access to her from the north. Gray was already blocking access to Faye, but I moved him one square north, but this wasn't necessary.
- Turn 6 Enemy Phase:
  - Desaix moves to attack Lukas.
  - The Soldier moves to attack Clive and gets doubled.
  - Slayde moves around my units to get closer to the Supplies area since the direct route is closed off by Lukas.
- Turn 7 Player Phase:
  - Clair flies one square down to leave Desaix's attack range, but she's still near enough to lock Slayde into the Supplies area on the next Player Phase.
  - Python moves two squares down and one to the left, and takes a shot at the Soldier. Clive follows up and ORKOs the Soldier.
  - Lukas moves to the square vacated by Python and continues to bait Desaix.
  - Kliff moves two squares left of Python. Silque moves to the square he vacated and Recovers Faye.
  - Faye moves to the right of Python and Physics Lukas.
  - Tobin moves to Lukas' right. Everyone else stays put.
- Turn 7 Enemy Phase:
  - Desaix moves to attack Lukas from the left.
  - Slayde enters the Supplies area, but does not reach a Supplies square.
- Turn 8 Player Phase:
  - Clair moves to the entrance of the Supplies area, right below Slayde, but doesn't attack. At that point, he's trapped and she'll never kill him.
  - Lukas, Forsyth, and Clive trap Desaix in a square without terrain effects. The remaining units can all attack at 2+ range. Silque and Faye will be used to heal for the most part. Alm and Kliff will trade around the Lightning Sword through Forsyth, so that the two of them can use the weapon on every turn. Tobin stays within support range of Alm and uses Excalibur.
  - On this turn, I deal 14 damage to Desaix. He's at 33 HP.
- Turn 8 Enemy Phase:
  - Desaix heals 5 HP, and attacks Lukas, taking 2 damage during retaliation. He's at 36 HP.
  - Slayde moves to a Supplies square, and the enemy Knight moves to attack Clair. Slayde can no longer reach Clair at all.
- Turn 9 Player Phase:
  - On this turn I heal with my Clerics and deal 16 damage to Desaix. He's at 20 HP.
- Turn 9 Enemy Phase:
  - Desaix heals 5 HP, and attacks Forsyth, taking 2 damage during retaliation. He's at 23 HP.
  - The Knight attacks Clair.
- Turn 10 Player Phase:
  - Faye Physics Clair to keep her alive.
  - While trading around the Lightning Sword, Forsyth eats a Carrot from Provisions.
  - On this turn, I deal 15 damage to Desaix. He's at 8 HP.
- Turn 10 Enemy Phase:
  - Desaix heals 5 HP, and attacks Lukas, taking 2 damage during retaliation. He's at 11 HP.
  - The Knight attacks Clair.
- Turn 11 Player Phase:
  - Kliff, Forsyth, Alm, Python, and Gray attack Desaix. Silque makes the kill with Nosferatu. Slayde retreats.
  - Faye moves north, Rescues Tobin, and he doubles the Knight with Fire.
  - Clair attacks him from above, and Clive makes the kill after reclaiming his Steel Lance from Tobin.

A few things were rather lucky. I landed a lot of Excalibur crits on Desaix, I got +1 Defense on Kliff from his level up on Turn 1, and Clive gained +1 Speed when he leveled up, thus preventing Slayde from doubling him. The latter didn't matter much because Slayde would not have been able to take him out anyway. And although I tried and managed to give Silque the Desaix kill to get her closer to promotion, I still had Lukas left who could make the kill if Nosferatu missed.

After the battle, all that was left to do to complete Act 1 was to collect a few items from Zofia Castle, leaving the Steel Lance, the Iron Shield, and the Blue Cheese for Celica to collect in Act 2.

**Turn Count:** 11

[Back](README.md)
