# Act 1 - Attack on the Southern Outpost

Although the enemies that aren't hiding behind ramparts move out of the outpost to attack your units, drawing them out is necessary to get a four-turn clear. Some key aspects of this map:

- Alm and Tobin must rush forward to draw out all the enemy Soldiers.
- Tobin conviniently still doubles all the Soldiers with Fire, and leaves them within KO range of Silque's Nosferatu. He needs to double all of them, but not kill them.
- The Soldier behind the ramparts is standing on a Supplies square. In order to give this KO to Silque, Tobin needs to have 9 Attack before attacking him, as this leaves the Soldier at exactly 8 HP by the time Silque wants to take the KO with Nosferatu. Because he got so much action early on, it wasn't difficult to rig +1 Attack on his level up. Without it, Silque would've needed 10 Attack, which was a much more difficult target number.
- Gray can easily double the Steel Bow Archer standing on the Supplies square and KO him over two turns. However, because Gray has only 9 Attack, it's important that he land two hits on his opening attack as this sets the Archer on heal AI. This is desirable because the Archer will otherwise attack Gray on Enemy Phase and expose him to being killed by the other Soldiers on the field, if they can secure a kill. While on heal AI, the Archer will not attack, even if he can reach targets from the Supplies square.
- This is actually a blessing in disguise as Gray is able to place the right-most Soldier within Nosferatu KO range of Faye.
- The other Archer must be drawn out to avoid having to fight him on Tile squares. Because Alm is rushing forward, he's equipped with a Leather Shield to retain the ability to double opponents while making himself a less desirable target for the Archer. Meanwhile, Faye is placed within his range and on open terrain, while Silque moves forward, but takes refuge in a Forest square to avoid becoming a target.
- Because Silque's Warp is still top priority, I make sure she gets to take out an Archer and a Soldier on Player Phase, as well as two Soldiers weakened by Tobin. They would normally be on heal AI, but since they see an easy ORKO on Silque, they make the attempt. This requires playing around with the Turnwheel to guarantee that Silque kills them on the counter-attack, as they otherwise kill her.
- Alm needs to draw out the boss with the Iron Sword and land two hits on Enemy Phase to leave him within ORKO range for Tobin. His access to the Convoy makes him able to switch items effectively.

I equipped the following:

- Alm - **Leather Shield** and **Iron Sword**: while I would preferred Alm to start off with Lukas's Shield to work on Shove, the Speed penalty would've rendered him unable to double the lead Soldier and this is necessary for Tobin to ORKO him. He switches to the Iron Sword because my Tobin is at 8 Speed at the start of battle and Alm would have to deal 20 damage over one Enemy Phase and one Player Phase for Tobin to kill the boss with Fire. As it is, my Tobin got +1 Attack and +1 Speed on his level up. In hindsight, Alm could've left the Iron Sword to Kliff, but he got some SP for Wrath Strike nonetheless.
- Kliff - **Lukas's Shield**: it would've been more useful to get in more SP towards Wrath Strike, but I couldn't afford to not leave the Iron Sword for Alm on standby. Luckily, Kliff doesn't care for the Speed penalty of the shield, so he gets some SP towards Swap while he can.
- Lukas - **Clive's Lance**: Lukas is no longer able to double opponents unless he's unequipped. And in order to setup an Archer kill for Silque with Kliff, he needs a little more oomph than what Fernand's Lance can muster. At least this lance gives him some SP.
- Silque - **Mila Carving**: as before, Silque faces a lot of combat and she needs to avoid critical hits to be able to retaliate and kill.

Team goals have not changed:

- Warp on Silque
- Excalibur on Tobin
- Myrmidon Kliff
- Physic on Faye

Silque gets most of the kills on this map, with Tobin taking the boss and a lot of chip. Kliff takes no kills this map, but he was close to leveling up from the previous battle, plus the next one will have him see a lot of action after he gets his hands on the Lightning Sword. As such, Faye and Gray end up taking a kill each as well.

After the battle, I visit the Southern Outpost Interior, recruit Clair and collect everything, except for the Iron Lance and the Rusted Steel Shield. The Iron Lance would've been useful for Alm's team until we hit the Forest Village, but Celica will need to forge it into a Steel Lance to complete The Merchant of Death and I would rather not invest a Peddler into this unless strictly necessary. Besides, having collected Fernand's Lance and Clive's Lance with the DLC maps, I have other options. The Rusted Steel Shield can be repaired by Celica and provide extra Defense when facing enemy Mercenaries/Myrmidons/Dread Fighters, who'll double most of her units regardless.

**Turn Count:** 4

[Back](README.md)
