# Act 2 - Flight from the Ruins (DLC)

Because the reward for this DLC is an Anti-Terrors weapon with +5 Resistance, my plan is to do it before leaving off with Celica's army. This will allow Mae to do a lot more stuff on her own early on, especially since a few of the boat maps feature enemy magic-users. Since I'm going to be collecting Mila's Bounty with Celica for the Gold, I'll also do it before moving out, so that I can leverage the Taurus Shard during Act 2 as well. After recruiting Mae, Boey, and Genny, I loot the entire place, give three Attack Fountains to Mae, start the two Priory quests, then collect Mila's Bounty 3 and begin Flight from the Ruins.

Because of the way the enemies are placed, it's difficult to move both Mathilda and Clair to the full extend of their movement. They want to trade around their items, depending on who might need to heal and face Terrors, and who wants to bait Arcanists into attack range. Luckily, Mathilda ORKOs every opponent on this map and both of the girls enjoy decent avoid and critical hit rates, especially with the Blessed Lance. Not to mention that the Ancient Ring can be used to bait enemy Arcanists safely.

In order to get an 11-turn clear, I decided to restart the battle a few times until I could rig a critical hit on the first Arcanist with Mathilda on Turn 2 while she has the Ancient Ring. The idea is that first Clair moves above Mathilda and trades items, so that she can ORKO the two Revenants on Enemy Phase. Meanwhile, Mathilda moves to the square right below the Pillar, to draw an attack from the Arcanist to her right and the one on her left, from the other side of the wall. This is the idea attack spot, because it prevents the Arcanist from taking the Pillar as he prefers avoiding retaliation. Then, after killing him with a crit and a hit with Mathilda, Clair can move next to her and trade items again.

This gets the girls a pretty big head start on the battle as a whole, because Malthida starts at full HP on Turn 3, whereas Clair is already equipped with the Ancient Ring again, ready to move left to soon bait the Arcanist. Meanwhile, on Turn 3, Mathilda takes out the Arcanist on her right because he's the only one she cannot kill on Enemy Phase. Ideally, she will crit on the first attack or the Arcanist will miss. If these conditions can be rigged, the battle goes far more smoothly.

After that, it might be tempting to send Clair in to fight the Revenant that just moved near, but this also draws the Arcanist right away, and Clair is already facing attacks from one Revenant and one Bonewalker on Enemy Phase. So I just move to the right of the Pillar and stay put, ready to move to the Supplies square to her left on Turn 4. On Enemy Phase, The Revenant close to Clair takes the Pillar to attack her while a Bonewalker attacks from her right. Meanwhile, Mathilda clears all the Terrors that make an attempt on her. These kills don't really matter as she'll be outpacing them soon enough. The important target was the Arcanist that she killed on Player Phase.

On Turn 4, as much as it might be tempting for Clair to go after the Arcanist right away, she would also be in range of two Bonewalkers, so I instead have her occupy the Supplies square, while Mathilda moves to the square she vacated and takes out the Revenant on the Pillar, to avoid having him pile up on Clair as well. On Enemy Phase, Clair faces attacks from both Bonewalkers and the Arcanist, but she's tough enough to survive that turn. The Bonewalker that was previously harrassing Clair goes to the Pillar, but ends up suiciding on Mathilda.

On Turn 5, Mathilda rushes to kill the Arcanist, while Clair falls back to the right beyond the reach of the Bonewalkers. They die on Mathilda during Enemy Phase. Coming up are three more Bonewalkers in the corridor and two Arcanists.

On Turn 6, Clair returns to the Supplies square (out of range of enemies), while Mathilda moves down to bait two of the three Bonewalkers and no one else. They both fall on enemy phase.

On Turn 7, Clair flies down to the limit of the first Arcanist's range to draw him out, while Mathilda positions herself to bait the third Bonewalker into suiciding on Enemy Phase. If Clair had not been on the Supplies, it would've been possible for the girls to make the escape one turn earlier, but I don't think they can weather the assault from the remaining Arcanist plus a Bonewalker reinforcement that's about to pop up.

On Turn 8, Clair attacks the Arcanist from the right and Mathilda makes the kill from below. No enemies are in range during Enemy Phase. A Bonewalker reinforcement appears on the bottom-left corner.

On Turn 9, Clair attacks the Arcanist from the left. She could also attack from above, but this keeps the Arcanist from reaching her from the Pillar to the right. At this point, Clair is at 9 HP, while Mathilda is at 16 HP. I can either opt to use Mathilda take out the Arcanist right now without retaliation or ORKO the Bonewalker and potentially take 5 points of damage. While the Arcanist's damage on Mathilda looks scary, she has exactly enough HP to survive both attacks. On the other hand, if I let the Bonewalker persist, it'll attack Clair for 7 damage and she'll be at 2 HP. And, the thing is, I still need her to body block against the Arcanist boss, who doubles her, even with Mire. Seeing as she can very well die, the correct answer is to ORKO the Bonewalker right now and save Clair as Mathilda will survive both attacks even if they hit. She attacks from above the Bonewalker, the only space from which to reach it. The Bonewalker falls after riposting and the Arcanist brings her down to 1 HP during Enemy Phase with Mire.

On Turn 10, Clair moves below the left-hand Partition to prevent the boss from going after Mathilda. Meanwhile, she goes to the right of the Arcanist, makes the kill. She's exactly 7 squares from the Escape area. On Enemy Phase, the boss doubles Clair, but she easily survives.

On Turn 11, the girls escape. For my effort, I claim Clair's Lance and the Memory Prism 13. Now, onto Novis Cemetery.

**Turn Count:** 11

[Back](README.md)