# Act 2 - Assault on the Pirate Throne

This is definitely the most difficult battle of the Act up to now. Not because the enemies are particularly difficult, but because without access to Physic, Leon is quite susceptible to being killed by the Brigands before we're able to get to him with Genny. In order to make it there, we have to rush forward.

What's more, we also need to rain Thunder on Barth as quickly as possible as even this is a 3HKO and Mae doesn't double him. So to make the 5-turn clear, Mae needs to get to him on Turn 3 Player Phase and nothing can stand in her way. As such, I can't leverage the Taurus Shard for Celica or Mae.

The plan is to send Mae forward with the Leather Shield. She draws the initial wave of attacks on Turn 1 and because she has 9+ Speed, she can ORKO every Brigand on the map. She is followed by Celica, then Genny, and finally Saber, while Boey sits on the Supplies in Celica's ship to prevent the enemies from going into heal AI. Because Genny will also be drawing fire (especially from the Archer), she is equipped with Bread, with the priority being on moving closer to Leon and keeping herself afloat.

Mae learns Swap during Turn 1 Enemy Phase, but she's at 7 HP. Celica wants to take the Leather Shield for herself so that she too can learn the ability, but this leaves Mae in range of being KO'd by the Archer. So she grabs Drinking Water from the Convoy, trades items with Mae and shoots Fire at the Pirate to her left. She could KO the Archer, but I haven't yet decided who would be getting this KO. Mae moves straight north and drinks the water to ensure survival against the enemy Archer. Genny is too far to heal her, but since she already took an arrow herself on Turn 1, she eats some of the Bread regardless after moving north. Saber moves slightly back into Celica's ship, hoping to take only on one of the Brigands and leave the rest to Celica.

The Archer makes a shot on Mae. Genny is currently out of range of the Brigands, so three of them go after Celica (one dies), while the fourth one makes for Saber. Celica learns Swap.

The following turn, Mae throws her first Thunder at Barth, while Celica circumvents the Brigands around her to ORKO the Archer once and for all. I consider having Genny move her full range, but seeing as Leon is relatively close by, I decide that she can forgo one square of Movement in order to patch up Mae. This turns out to be a blessing in disguise as during Enemy Phase the two Brigands Celica weakened will make an attempt on Genny who will kill them on retaliation, level up, and learn Invoke. Boey and Saber finish up the Brigand who was harassing Saber.

On Enemy Phase, the two Brigands who were harassing Leon bring him under 5 HP. And the idiot goes ahead and moves one square out of reach of Genny. My saving grace? Celica has just learned Swap, which she uses to get Genny into position to heal Leon. Mae takes a second shot at Barth. The green units take out the remaining Brigands, and on Turn 5, Mae pulls the Taurus Shard from Convoy, kills Barth, and levels up again.

After the battle, I visit the Pirate Throne Interior, recruit the trio, and loot the entire place.

**Turn Count:** 5

[Back](README.md)