# Act 2 - Beast Hunt

The infamous Necrodragon battle at the entrance of the Seabound Shrine. At first, I was afraid Mae might be causing me to suffer from my success. She's my plan for baiting the dragons to begin with, by giving her the Iron Shield and Swapping with her so that she can make her way to the Forest square below and set up a kill on the boss for herself and a kill for Genny. This proved to be a bit more tedious than expected because Mae is too strong. At 21 Attack, she deals 24 damage on the Necrodragons, leaving them at 18 HP each. And at that threshold, Celica can't use Seraphim without killing the dragons altogether. So how am I going to get a kill for Genny?

Well, it just so happens that I can bring one of the Necrodragons to exactly 2 HP, where Genny can take the KO with Nosferatu x2:

- Leon attacks with the Iron Bow for 5 damage
- Valbar attacks with Clair's Lance for 7 damage
- Celica attacks with Fire for 3 damage
- Boey attacks with Fire for 1 damage

And that's how Genny gets one kill. Mae would claim the other with little difficulty. Among other things, I also:

- Had Saber chip in with the Steel Sword to level-up
- Traded around the Iron Shield between Boey, Mae, and Celica so that they would all get Shove SP
- Unlocked Boey and Mae's C support

Sadly, Mae didn't quite make it to LV11. She's at 99 experience, so seeing as I plan on doing a little grinding before the end of the Act, she'll make one attack on an enemy before I feed her the Golden Apple and Experience Fountains to reach promotion level. In the meantime, I explore the Seabound Shrine to collect 4 Corral Fragments on the ground, pick up the treasure from the Shrine, and complete two more quests before I get to grinding.

**Turn Count:** 2

[Back](../README.md)