# Act 2 - Second Pirate Raid

It's important that Mae get to 9 Speed before the next battle. The great thing is that she levels up on Turn 1, so it's not a hassle to rig this to happen with the Taurus Shard. She moved to take out the first Brigand on her left at Thunder range, so that she's within reach of the Brigand to her right on Enemy Phase, but not the Mercenary.

Boey and Celica move right behind her as they'll be needed to chip in on the Mercenary on Turn 2. Genny stays within 4 squares of Mae to heal her on Turn 2, whereas Saber remains on Celica's ship, one square to the left of the plank. During Enemy Phase, it's important that the space three squares left of where the Mercenary moves into is clear, because Mae will be making the KO on him from there.

On Turn 2, Celica moves up to chip the Mercenary at range with Fire, Boey does the same from the left, Genny moves to heal Mae, and Mae moves to the left of Boey to KO the Mercenary with Thunder. This coincides perfectly with another level up, so she sends the Taurus Shard to Convoy and equips her new Leather Shield. No so much for the Swap SP, but because it deters the enemy Archer from attacking her in favor of staying put and attacking Boey. He faces a lot of flak this Enemy Phase, but he has enough bulk to weather it out. Meanwhile, Celica gets to chip some more with her Sword. Before ending that Turn, Saber moved straight west to face the two Brigands boarding Celica's ship. One is left at exactly 50% HP, while the other is in heal AI.

On the following Turn, Mae is rather run-down, so she moves below Celica, trades her the Leather Shield (Celica's the one who wants to learn Swap ASAP), and eats a Herring from Provisions to restore herself. Celica moves below the Archer and attacks him, leaving him in range of being OHKO'd by Genny, who moves below Celica, pulls the Taurus Shard from Convoy and makes the kill. Boey takes refuge behind Mae, out of reach of the Brigands. Saber KOs the Brigand who's on heal AI. On Enemy Phase, the Brigand near Saber suicides on him, and the other two die against Mae.

All in all, some decent level-ups, got support points for Celica, Mae, and Boey. Mae is over halfway to Swap, Celica got started on it, and Saber's on his way to Plenitude. Both Mae and Celica are on the verge of leveling up, so I'll make sure to get some decent bonuses early during the next battle.

**Turn Count:** 3

[Back](../README.md)