# Act 2 - Third Pirate Raid

The infamous Cantor pirate raid. This one always felt like a drudge in my previous attempts, due to the restrained movement and the non-aggressive boss who also happened to stand on a Supplies square and have the Incarnation ability. Luckily for me, I had a few things going for me this time that allowed me to make a reliable clear in four turns:

- Celica has already learned Swap. Using Swap with my frontliner Mae as my first action allows Mae to be able to reach the Cantor with Fire on Turn 3 Player Phase. This is also convenient in that Celica can trade the Leather Shield to Mae on Turn 2 to ensure that she only takes 1 damage from each of the two enemy Revenants that can attack her.
- Mae is Attack blessed. Though I wasn't rigging her level-ups to gain Attack, the fact that she started the battle with 18 Attack meant that he could 4HKO the Cantor with Fire even after a single turn of healing, without any help from anyone else. The bare minimum for te solo 4HKO is 17 Attack because the Cantor has 36 HP to burn through and heals 10 from the Supplies and Incarnation, but takes 2 damage from retaliating twice against her with Miasma and takes 11 damage per hit from Fire. As if to add insult to injury, she managed to level-up twice with her two attacks on the Cantor, gaining Attack on each one again. If her Attack had started off lower, I would've needed to use my other characters to force the Cantor to retaliate to chip him down some more.
- Clair's Lance. Not necessarily a deal-breaker, but the +5 Resistance made it so that Mae could pretty much solo the Cantor without needing Genny around to heal her specifically. This allowed me to give Genny some more combat against the Conjured Revenants and she managed to get to LV5. Only three more until Physic!
- Valbar was the one responsible for carrying Clair's Lance for Mae. His starting position was such that he could trade items with Mae on Turn 3 Player Phase, before she moves to attack the Cantor. This conviently allows Valbar to get a little SP on Swap this battle, since Mae had been traded the Leather Shield the turn before.
- The other units mostly chipped in or tried to setup a KO for Genny. Since Saber was so close to leveling up, I gave him a Revenant KO as well.
- Once all my other units had killed as many of the Revenants as they could on Turn 4, Mae killed the Cantor.

Two more pirate raids to go. Celica is not far from LV3, but she needs to ideally hit an 11 Attack benchmark before she faces off against the Arcanists and the Cantor at Zofia Castle. I'll try and rig these level-ups if it's not too much of a hassle.

**Turn Count:** 4

[Back](../README.md)