# Act 2 - Fourth Pirate Raid

In this raid, the enemies feature a pair of Archers and quite a few Mercenaries. Mae can't entirely frontine this on her own as she will run out of HP from her own attacks. Even with the Leather Shield, she can easily die if the Mercs gang up on her.

As such, her goals were to clear the way for Valbar to step in and hold them off. She dealt with most of the Brigands, but didn't face any Mercs on Enemy Phase. That being said, being at LV9 already, she wasn't gaining much experience from these enemies, and between the boss and the few Brigands he picked off, she's on the cusp of reach LV10. The idea is to get her to LV11 by the end of the Act, so that she can class-change to Priestess after eating the Golden Apple and drinking from both Experience Fountains at Seabound Shrine.

As I mentioned before, Celica was close to leveling up, and since she needs to hit an 11 Attack benchmark by the time gets ambushed at Zofia Castle. I had to restart a few times for this, but the result was nice. What's more, it also yielded a good level up for Leon, who got a point of Resistance. I'm also aiming to class-change him before the end of the Act. Leon dealt with both Archers pretty much on his lonesome as they prefer to target ranged units and Mae had the Leather Shield equipped during the first two Enemy Phases. On Turn 3 Player Phase, both Archers were out.

Finally, since Valbar would see a lot of front row action, Mae gave him her Leather Shield on Turn 3, before attacking, and between his Player and Enemy Phases, Valbar got enough action to learn Swap and gain a few SP towards Mistdancer. Heck, even Boey took the Leather Shield to make a chip on the boss (though this still wasn't enough to get him to LV2). I gave Genny one Merc KO as she wants to get to Physic ASAP. If she Recovers twice, she'll level up.

Next up: the final pirate raid, against the Arcanists.

**Turn Count:** 4

[Back](../README.md)