# Act 2 - Fifth Pirate Raid

Mae could've probably dealt with this map pretty much on her own, with Clair's Lance. Not only does she double every enemy, but she ORKOs every Arcanist other than the boss. And that's only because she's 2 points of damage short of doing it. And since she was at 99 experience, she could gain a point of Attack from her level-up and straight up ORKO the boss as well. The only problem is that she can't be at all places at once and I still have work to do on my other units, particularly Celica (who wants to gain a point of Attack), Leon (who wants to reach LV7 for class-change), and Genny (who still wants to get to Physic).

So I sent Genny forward (after Valbar uses Swap to let her reach one square further into the enemy ship), followed two squares behind by Kamui with Clair's Lance, whose job is to bait out the boss and survive. Meanwhile, Mae takes the left plank and Thunders the first Arcanist. I rigged a miss on one of her attacks, because she gets less and less experience from these foes and I'd like for Leon to claim some for himself.

Speaking of whom, Leon needs exactly two double-chips and two kills to reach LV7. He needed to avoid scoring critical hits as this would put the Arcanists into heal AI and I didn't want them retreating to the Supplies or to be healed in the back. On Turn 1 Enemy Phase, I made sure that Mae missed at least one use of her Fire spell, so that Leon could take out the Arcanist on Turn 2, while at the same time baiting another into attacking him on the next Enemy Phase. Between Mae and Leon, all the Arcanists were dealt with by the end of Turn 3 Player Phase, except for the boss and one of the underlings.

I fed Celica the KO on the boss, but she didn't get Attack on her level-up. I considered resetting, but seeing as I had already gotten very good level-ups on other characters, I decided against it. I had a plan B after the battle. Meanwhile, I used a combination of Boey, Saber, and Kamui to set up the kill on the other Arcanist for Genny.

After the battle, I had a lot of stuff to do in preparation for the ambush at Zofia Castle. First, I entered Zofia Harbor, started a couple of quests, and looted the place of every valuable. I found a Coral Fragment that I immediately sold to Alessio.

Then, I went to the western part of Southern Zofia to collect every item that was not claimed by Alm, except for those at Zofia Castle. In addition, I stopped at the Deliverance Hideout to have Celica drink from an Attack Fountain. This was my plan B in case her level-up didn't yield the point. Leon class-changed to Sniper, too. While making a stop at Ram Village, I completed The Wages of Sin with her as the Fruit of Life it rewards is much better used on her side than on Alm's. While she was at the Deliverance Hideout and in the Thieves' Shrine, she found a few Silver coins in the grass, but she didn't find any Wine in the barrels. I'll stock up before Act 2 is over.

Next up: the ambush at Zofia Castle.

**Turn Count:** 3

[Back](../README.md)