# Act 2 - Zofia Castle Ambush

Because this battle restricts me to Celica and Saber and neither of them has seen much training during the Act, the four turn clear is not trivial by any means. To consider:

- The Cantor has a 3HKO on Celica. As such, in the ideal scenario, Celica should 5HKO him over three combat rounds (two Player Phases, one Enemy Phase). With 34 HP and Incarnation, this means burning down through 39 points of damage against him. On two of these combat rounds, the Cantor will definitely retaliate with Miasma, meaning that Celica needs to burn through 37 points of damage over five attcks, as the Cantor otherwise gets the 3HKO on her. This technically means that Celica could afford to go for the 6HKO if she could somehow deal 36 damage over five attacks, preventing the Cantor from retaliating, but 36 is not divisible by 5. The nearest multiple of 5 is 40, so Celica would need to deal 8 damage per attack and the Cantor has 7 Defense. Celica has 11 Attack.
  - With the Steel Sword, Celica makes the kill barely.
  - With the Iron Sword, Celica needs to score a single critical hit or avoid one of the three Miasma retaliations.

- Meanwhile, Saber, has other problems to deal with. He needs to take out an Arcanist that stands in Celica's path to the Cantor. If she retaliated twice on him with Fire, he'll be at 17 HP. Because Saber has ony 10 Attack, he needs the Steel Sword to make the 2HKO, but he also takes 6 damage from the Arcanist's retaliation. Worse yet: this exposes Saber to being attacked by another Arcanist on Turn 2 Enemy Phase, meaning that Saber is now potentially at 12 HP and unable to get out of the Arcanist's range. At his current Attack, none of the weapons I have gives him a clean 3HKO that would spare him a lethal retaliation from the Arcanist.

I made an initial attempt that relied on luck to get me through and I managed to make it in four turns. I fiddled around with the idea of leveraging Conrad to take out the last Arcanist instead of Saber, and came up with this plan that can be reliably done with 11 Attack Celica and 10 Attack Saber:

- Celica: Steel Sword (required to setup a kill for Conrad)
- Saber: Iron Sword

Turn 1 Player Phase:

- Celica moves straight up to the limit of her movement range.
- Saber moves to a safe spot one square below and to the left of her.

Turn 1 Enemy Phase:

- Arcanist #1 attacks Celica with Miasma, she retaliates with Fire x2. Celica's at 15 HP, Arcanist #1 is at 17 HP.
- Arcanist #2 attacks Celica with Miasma, she retaliates with Steel Sword x2. Celica's at 10 HP, Arcanist #2 is at 11 HP.
- Arcanist #3 draws closer.

Turn 1 Ally Phase:

- Conrad attacks Arcanist #2 with Lance x2, he retaliates with Miasma. Conrad's at 27 HP, Arcanist #2 is dead.

Turn 2 Player Phase:

- Saber moves to the right of Celica, trades items with her, attacks Arcanist #1 with Steel Sword x2, he retaliates with Miasma. Saber's at 18 HP, Arcanist #1 is dead.
- Celica crosses the bridge, drinks Cold Soup from Provisions. Celica's at 20 HP.

Turn 2 Enemy Phase:

- Arcanist #3 attacks Saber with Miasma. Saber's at 12 HP, Arcanist #3 is at 29 HP.

Turn 2 Ally Phase:

- Conrad attacks Arcanist #4 with Lance x2, he retaliates with Miasma. Conrad's at 26 HP, Arcanist #4 is at 15 HP.

Turn 3 Player Phase:

- Saber moves below Celica, trades items with her, eats Flour from Provision. Saber's at 22 HP. He's also keeping the Arcanist out of reach of Celica and within reach of Conrad.
- Celica attacks Cantor with Steel Sword x2, he retaliates with Miasma. Celica's at 10 HP, Cantor is at 17 HP.

Turn 3 Enemy Phase:

- Arcanist #3 attacks Saber with Miasma. Saber's at 16 HP, Arcanist #3 is at 28 HP.
- Arcanist #4 attacks Conrad with Miasma. Conrad's at 25 HP, Arcanist #4 is at 14 HP.
- Cantor heals 5 HP, attacks Celica with Miasma, she retaliates with Steel Sword x2. Celica's at 1 HP, Cantor is at 5 HP.

Turn 3 Ally Phase:

- Conrad attacks Arcanist #4 with Lance x2, he retaliates with Miasma. Conrad's at 24 HP, Arcanist #4 is dead.

Turn 4 Player Phase:

- Celica swaps the Steel Sword for the Golden Dagger (not needed, but it's more accurate), attacks Cantor and kills him.
- Saber attacks Arcanist #3 with Iron Sword x2, he retaliates with Miasma. Saber's at 10 HP, Arcanist #3 is at 15 HP.

Turn 4 Enemy Phase:

- Arcanist #3 attacks Saber with Miasma. Saber's at 4 HP, Arcanist #3 is at 14 HP.

Turn 4 Ally Phase:

- Conrad attacks Arcanist #3 with Lance x2 and kills him.

I tried variations of this approach that tried to leverage Clair's Lance to keep Saber alive or having Celica initially equip the Iron Sword, but they ended up costing me an extra turn for a couple of reasons:

- Celica needs at least 19 HP before she starts facing off against the Cantor and she takes 12 damage on Turn 1 Enemy Phase. If Celica gained HP +1 from a level-up, she can heal herself on Turn 2 Player Phase with any 10 HP healing item as this puts her at exactly 19 HP. If Celica didn't gain any HP, she needs to use a stronger Provision. Base Saber doesn't run into any HP issues by healing with any 10 HP healing item. At worst, he'll be down to 2 HP by the end of the battle.
- Even though Celica's retaliation with the Iron Sword on Arcanist #2 leaves him at 15/30 HP, Conrad doesn't read a kill on him for some reason and instead opts to attack Arcanist #3. This makes it so that Saber can't clear the bridge for Celica to cross through. As such, the Iron Sword initial equipment is not an option for Celica. She needs to jump in with Steel.
- Instead of trying to mess around with the Iron Sword, I initially thought to give Saber Clair's Lance for the +5 Resistance. While this kept me from having to heal him from Provisions to survive, the end result was that he didn't deal sufficient damage on Arcanist #3 for Conrad to be able to take him out on Turn 4 Ally Phase.
- This strategy is not feasible with Saber if he doesn't start the battle with 10 Attack, unless he crits and rises to 10 Attack from the level-up he gains from his kill on the first Arcanist. Base Saber doesn't have enough Attack to finish off Arcanist #1 even with the Steel Sword.
- In future runs, given that Celica can reliably get to Lv4 by now and Saber to LV3, I would rig all three of Celica's level-ups and one of Saber's to yield Attack +1. One of Celica's level-ups should also yield HP +1. With these benchmarks, the four turn clear is fairly easy and requires only that all attacks hit.

The second attempt with the safer tactic also yielded a fantastic level-up for Celica (that also included Seraphim), so icing on the cake! Before moving on to the Seabound Shrine, a few things to do:

- Collect the Steel Lance and Iron Shield from Zofia Castle. I want to get people working on Shove ASAP.
- Start and complete The Grand Duke of Dairy #1.
- Start and complete The Grand Duke of Dairy #2.
- Complete Sweet Treats.

**Turn Count:** 4

[Back](../README.md)